{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs24 \cf0 "More than 200 people were injured, including eight in serious conditions, during another episode of repression against teachers from the public sector by the Parana state\'92s military police. (...) Thirteen people were arrested, according to Parana\'92s Public Security Department... "\
\
"The offensive took place in front of the legislative assembly, where, according to the teachers' unions, 20,000 people protested against changes in their pension plan. Following orders from Parana state's governor, Beto Richa, the military police were called to keep protesters away from the assembly..."\
\
\'93Unofficial sources say that more than 50 police officers refused to shoot protesters. This group would be going through dismissal process... "\
\
\'93Inside the Assembly, legislators voted for approving the measures. Despite the situation outside, the government leader Luiz Claudio Romanelli got the votes needed for the approval. There were 31 votes in favor and 19 votes against... "\
\
\'93In a first moment, (...) the Government released a note mentioning only four injured (...), although photos of dozens of people bleeding due to the police attacks were circulating in social networks. By the end of the day, the note released by the governor Beto Richa did not mention the number of people wounded."\
\
\
\
======================================================================\
\
\
\
\'93Mais de 200 pessoas ficaram feridas, oito em estado grave, durante mais um epis\'f3dio de repress\'e3o da pol\'edcia do Paran\'e1 a professores da rede estadual de ensino. (...) Treze pessoas foram presas, segundo a Secretaria de Seguran\'e7a P\'fablica\'85\'94\
\
\'93A ofensiva ocorreu em frente \'e0 Assembleia Legislativa, onde, segundo o sindicatos dos professores, 20.000 pessoas protestavam contra as mudan\'e7as na previd\'eancia para os servidores do Estado. A Pol\'edcia Militar foi escalada pelo governador Beto Richa para impedir a entrada dos manifestantes na Assembleia\'85\'94\
\
\'93H\'e1 informa\'e7\'f5es de fontes extraoficiais de que mais de 50 policiais militares teriam se recusado a disparar contra manifestantes. Esse grupo estaria passando por processo de exonera\'e7\'e3o\'85\'94\
\
\'93(Nada disso) impediu que, do lado de dentro da Assembleia, deputados votassem pela aprova\'e7\'e3o das medidas. Ap\'f3s bate-boca e uma pequena interrup\'e7\'e3o, o l\'edder do governo Luiz Claudio Romanelli (PMDB) conseguiu os votos necess\'e1rios para a aprova\'e7\'e3o. Foram 31 votos favor\'e1veis contra 19\'85\'94\
\
\'93Num primeiro momento, em nota (\'85), o Governo s\'f3 teria contabilizado quatro manifestantes feridos (...), embora as redes sociais viessem exibindo fotos de dezenas de pessoas sangrando em fun\'e7\'e3o dos ataques da pol\'edcia.  A nota do governador Beto Richa, liberada no final do dia, n\'e3o contava mais o n\'famero de feridos\'94.\
\
Texto original:  "PM reprime protesto de professores em Curitiba e mais de 200 se ferem", por Germano Assad, publicado no "El Pa\'eds" em 29 de Abril de 2015.}